What you will learn:

Many finance students and professionals find derivatives the most challenging subject in their field.  But if you have a background in quantitative fields like statistics or computer science this course will show you that these most daunting of financial products are completely accessible to you.

Topics Covered:
Interest rate fundamentals

Periodic and continuous compounding

Discounted cash flow analysis

Bond analysis

The fundamentals of equity, currency, and commodity assets

Portfolio modelling

Long and short positions

The principle of arbitrage

The Law of One Price

Forwards, futures, and swaps

Risk management principles

Futures hedging

Stochastic processes

Time series concepts

The real statistics of asset prices: volatility clustering and autocorrelation

Fat-tailed distribution and their importance for financial assets

Brownian motion

The log-normal model of asset prices

Options

Put-call parity

The binomial model of option pricing

The Black-Scholes theory and formula

Option greeks: delta, gamma, and vega

Dynamic hedging

Volatility trading

Implied volatility

What you’ll learn
Learn the fundamentals of derivatives at a quantitative level
Master arbitrage, the core principle underlying derivatives, quantitative risk management and quantitative trading
Use derivatives to control and manage financial risk
Price forwards, futures, swaps and options
Understand the Black-Scholes theory and formula intuitively, avoiding stochastic calculus
Learn the limitations of the Black-Scholes theory, and how it is used in practice
Python based tools are provided for computations with bonds, yield curves, and options

Are there any course requirements or prerequisites?
Calculus and a basic course in probability and statistics
No knowledge or background in finance is assumed


Financial Products: a huge univierse of assets, usually divided into 2 classes

Cash Products: Stocks, bonds, currencies, commoditieis
Derivativies: Forwards, futures, swaps, options

Derivative: is an asset linked to another asset called the underlyinig asset or just the underlying

The structure and value of the derivative asset is defnied by its relationship to the underlying

1. Price: determined on markets
2. Fair vluae: this corresponds to the "correct value"
    a. time value of money
    discoutned cash flow analysisi
    arbitrage
    
Arbitrage is the centreal concept of this course.

Arbitrage is a relatiive valutaioni method, and is the ideal tool for determiningi the relationiship between the value of a derivate asset and the value of its underlying

The fundamental derivative structures:
Forwards and futures are contracts that lock int he price 2 parties will buy and sell an asset for at some future date. The traded asset is the underlying.
Optonis are similar to forwards but none party has the right not to particiapte at the time the contract expires.

Swaps are linked to interest rates, allows a floating interest rate tobe switched to fa fixed rate. It ascts a rolling future

Risk
Risk is the chance or possibility of suffering financial loss
One of the purpose of derivatives is to serve as risk management tool


